---
created: 2024-05-23T11:26:28-04:00
modified: 2024-05-23T23:08:32-04:00
type: Journal
tags:
  - personality
  - journal
  - centering
---

Non-anxious presence as a manifestation of Keating's divine therapy (Candy).

Play with it
Feed it
Pee on it

Or 

Let go

Glass of wine?

---

I was transported to an ethereal place watching the documentary on Leonard Cohen. Hallelujah. It resonates so deep. The facsimile of a page Bernstein's manuscript of Simple Song hanging in the choir room. LC thanking everyone. Trying to make sense of it all. Must be 40 yo to study Kabbalah. 150+ verses to the song.

---

TY to Mike Shrader for his shirts.

---

Notice to Julian:

At the Eucharist today we remembered Jackson Kemper. In the 1840's and beyond he was the missionary bishop responsible for the frontier west -- Wisconsin, and the Dakota's, among others. He founded Nashotah House. I shared out loud to the gathering that my 2nd son was baptized in the chapel that Kemper had built at Nashotah House. It is the Red Building in the attached photo, built 1843. Kemper may not have worked on the building himself -- he had directed 3 deacons to do the actual work, but he is counted the founder of Nashotah House. It is with such deep gratitude that I recall your baptism in that building. You were completely submerged -- your mother properly prepared you for that in the bathtub in our apartment. It is like a profound stamp of approval on your birth, your life and all you would become. I am so glad that there is a YOU.


Faithfully,
Dad


To see a World in a grain of Sand
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower 
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand 
And Eternity in an hour (Blake)
