---
created: 2024-02-29T07:04:38-05:00
modified: 2024-02-29T15:44:35-05:00
type: Journal
tags:
  - lectio
  - clergy
  - church
---

Lectio with MP

God of peace ?.. non anxious presence ?.. agent of peace

Clergy lunch. Awkward feeling. We shared holy week stories. Doris asked about using alternative liturgies, and Peter is not in favor of it. He gave a story about how he has adopted according to local needs, but the basis is the written liturgy. Bill wants drama.

Bill worries about Peter being overextended. Doris talks about newcomers group and how they could be able to reduce some of the burden on Peter to welcome and incorporate newcomers. Peter related a program in realm which facilitates that and apparently Michelle and he are beginning to explore that.

I told him that what I saw was a need for him to let go in order to grow, noting that only he can let go.

He reported that the Vestry meeting is changing to Tuesday. meeting on Wednesday with the sound engineer, and at least they are committed to adding speakers. One of the questions is whether to add a loop and what it takes with hearing aids to make that work.

Bill said that the national program sacred ground is a good program and he thought I would be good at it. It may be came out in the 2020. He is currently doing a zoom session with a group of people on Verna Dozier’s dream of God. They are mostly from Colorado. He has been to the Trappist Monastery at Snowmass. as with so much else, he had first-hand experience with Keating.

he asked how I was doing, especially living in Highland Lakes. I reported that I’m still getting used to living in Florida he asked is it the culture? I said yes.
