---
created: 2024-02-23T10:07:02-05:00
modified: 2024-02-23T12:38:12-05:00
tags: SD, Marcus, preaching, suffering, waiting
---

Marcus and I shared the gospel in our reading. Prior to that I had voiced my passion about being disappointed at the lack of hospitality on the part of Christians who should know better.

I wanted to avoid the word suffering in the first reading, because it plays such an important role in at least the second half of my sermon , so I chose the phrase become my follower.

The second reading took me back to when in my 20s I had chosen Christianity to be my path as far as I could take it in seeking transcendence. The question then what to do about it? I have lived a life that speaks for itself, and cannot be changed.

So where do I go from here? From last week with Linda I get the word waiting. Here I think when I get is the message that Peter Judge has given me through his book on suffering. But it’s a form of listening to the deeds of others, of the world, and responding. and expecting rejection and suffering along the way. And living in expectation of the third day.

When I shared with Barkus by idea about writing on what finds Americans together, and telling him that one of my thoughts is that it comes down to trivial things. His example was Dinesh Souza something or rather writing a book about bines Christians together. The author is a right wing polemicist.

From Wikipedia on Dinesh:

> Some cultures have completely outperformed others in providing the things that all people seek—health, food, housing, security, and the amenities of life."[67]

[67] Sowell, Thomas (June 7, 2002). "What's So Great About America?". Capitalism Magazine. Archived from the original on June 13, 2003. Retrieved October 1, 2007.

Trevor Noah special proposes that one thing that holds America together: hate change. 

Cf “win”
