---
created: 2024-06-09T22:30:55-06:00
modified: 2024-06-09T22:38:19-06:00
type: Journal
tags:
  - family
  - memories
---

Owen called for Bridget to have been here in the picture taking. Emma had been brutal in rejecting even an effort to recognize one another's presence. Mo related to Megan having rejected her parents ( or her mother? ) and having to prepare for her sister's 80th birthday next year. 

Owen, Miriam, and Julian are so blithe in thinking that it's just a misunderstanding. I believe that her absence is like the absence of people in a gaslighting scenario. We watched a Julia Roberts movie, *Sleeping with the enemy*. A stalker. A killer. A gaslighter. My children don't recognize that that's who she is. Her absence in today's wedding festivities -- so joyous in so many ways -- was inevitable. 

Emma's rejection today was just business as usual. And a part of what I have had to let go of, just the same as she has had to let go of me. I said to Mo that because there is no rational reason for her hatred of me it has to be a mirage. She basically agrees, I think, but she said, "But it's very real and important for her." As it is, I guess, for her niece Megan.

Mo talked about the agony of parenting. The hurtful things that they do to us -- saying that all of them have done it to her. But that the parents have to always be there.

I'm thinking that's a luxury that mother's can give that fathers can not.

Anna, Michelle's mom, pointedly made friends with Mary Pat. And said she wanted to connect with me. I told her that I had heard about her from the kids -- especially after we moved to Hawai'i. (Michelle was born in Hawai'i).
