---
created: 2024-02-25T07:13:23-05:00
modified: 2024-02-25T22:33:34-05:00
type: Journal
tags:
  - writing
---

Last night one of the last things I said to MP was that I'll be glad when today is over. 
Meaning meaning that I'll be glad when church is over period.

[false assumptions](https://www.fixdemocracyfirst.org/post/6-the-myths-that-blind-us)

#names
Talk blond. Mary Catherine. She came out and said with a twinkle I’m glad I came. Another told me about teaching on Nairobi and a group of women prayed all night and said it was no time at all. Richard loved it. Another said she liked it so much she was going to go home and listen to it again.

Forum: Janet is the face on the screen. Living in North Carolina.

Linda Blair fell end of January and broke the ball of her arm. New joint.

At the end of my walk, I ran into our neighbor, Skip One, who formerly lived in a boat. Is it Steve? I can’t remember, but he passed me as I was walking with my polls, and when he got out of his car approached me and wanted to chat. he related that the first time he used polls was when he did the Kostello pilgrimage. He did that at a time when his first marriage collapsed really just shortly before he went off. It was for that reason alone a spiritual experience. I told him that I had friends who had Been on the pilgrimage and who, without additional drama had experienced, tremendous, spiritual connections.

He said as he related his dreams of making the loop from Tampa Bay around to the keys and up to Washington and New England spending the summer there and then progressing on up through the Great Lakes and down the Mississippi. What an adventure it’s now called in question by the fact that Bobbie, his wife fell and has injured her knee. They’re not sure how it’s going to progress.

But may be related to that he told me that he had been to see father, Peter, who had corresponded with him. He knew that he was a sensitive and kind man because of his letter or email. The context there was that I had shared peters dream about sailing between Florida and New England.

---

[How Ancient Writing Was Developed For Use in Religion &amp; Magic](https://www.thecollector.com/ancient-writing-developed-religion-magic/)
